README.md, before:

(- at 4:11)

# Goal

To go through Chris Hayes' "[Python with Stanford Alpaca and Vicuna 13B AI models - A llama-cpp-python Tutorial!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-BidzsQYZM4)"

---


# Install notes

- `makedir ./ml_llama_python_stuff`

- `cd ./ml_llama_python_stuff`

- `python3.8 -m venv ./venv_ml_llama`

    - Note that I'm using an older version of python, 3.8x, because that's the version of python for a server I regularly deploy to.

- `ln -s ./venv_ml_llama ./env`

- `mkdir ./ml_llama_python_code`

- `cd ./ml_llama_python_code`

- `source ../env/bin/activate`

- Re `requirements.in` -- For reproducibility, I put the main requirements into `requirements.in`, then `pip install pip-tools` into the venv, then `pip-compile ./requirements.in` (pip-compile is part of pip-tools) to produce the `requirements.txt`, then `pip-sync ./requirements.txt` (pip-sync is part of pip-tools).

- The url where Chris got his model says "obsolete", so I searched HuggingFace and found (as of 2023-Nov-21) [a different file named `ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin`](https://huggingface.co/Bleak/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1/tree/main)

- Getting an error just trying to load the model -- see video at 5:40:

    ```
    (venv_ml_llama) birkin@birkinbox-2021 ml_llama_python_code % 
    (venv_ml_llama) birkin@birkinbox-2021 ml_llama_python_code % python ./main.py
    [22/Nov/2023 12:10:14] DEBUG [main-<module>()::11] loading model
    gguf_init_from_file: invalid magic characters tjgg??k.
    error loading model: llama_model_loader: failed to load model from ../models/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin

    llama_load_model_from_file: failed to load model
    AVX = 0 | AVX2 = 0 | AVX512 = 0 | AVX512_VBMI = 0 | AVX512_VNNI = 0 | FMA = 0 | NEON = 1 | ARM_FMA = 1 | F16C = 0 | FP16_VA = 1 | WASM_SIMD = 0 | BLAS = 1 | SSE3 = 0 | SSSE3 = 0 | VSX = 0 | 
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "./main.py", line 12, in <module>
        llm = Llama( model_path='../models/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin' )
    ...etc...
    ```

    Some info on that `invalid magic characters tjgg`...
    <https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/issues/3708>

    Trying a suggestion from the youtube video...

    ```
    spheres5531
    5 months ago
    hey i found this and it worked for me: pip freeze | grep llama
    pip cache purge
    pip install llama-cpp-python==0.1.39
    ```

    Ok, that worked! Thanks `spheres5531`!

- TODO: the `llama.cpp/issues/3708` thread and other stuff indicates that modern versions of `llama-ccp-python`... maybe don't work on `.bin` files? But instead expect `.gguf` files? (New to all this.) So after I get this working, perhaps explore newer versions of `llama-ccp-python` (this is the nice benefit of being able to have multiple venvs and just point the `env` simlink to the active one) with newer models. For reference, [a gpt4 overview of the gguf format](https://chat.openai.com/share/6826ff67-432e-4e04-99b4-6e9be08242bd).

---


# Usage

`time python ./main01.py`
(or other `main__.py` file)


## main02.py output

```
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:48] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` Ada``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:48] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` Lov``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``el``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``ace``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` was``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` an``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` English``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` math``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``ematic``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``ian``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` and``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` writer``
...etc...
```


## main01.py output

```
[22/Nov/2023 12:55:35] DEBUG [main-<module>()::28] output: {
  "id": "cmpl-03b92ca8-2d67-4acc-b6f4-2964398e2bd2",
  "object": "text_completion",
  "created": 1700675728,
  "model": "../models/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin",
  "choices": [
    {
      "text": "Question: Who is Ada Lovelace? Answer: Ada Lovelace was an English mathematician and writer, born in 1815. She is known for her work on Charles Babbage's early mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine. She is considered to be the world's first computer programmer.",
      "index": 0,
      "logprobs": null,
      "finish_reason": "stop"
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 12,
    "completion_tokens": 62,
    "total_tokens": 74
  }
}
python ./main.py  33.89s user 0.72s system 486% cpu 7.117 total
```

Commit message:

explores full-chat response function.

README.md, after:

(- at 4:11)

# Goal

To go through Chris Hayes' "[Python with Stanford Alpaca and Vicuna 13B AI models - A llama-cpp-python Tutorial!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-BidzsQYZM4)"

---


# Install notes

- `makedir ./ml_llama_python_stuff`

- `cd ./ml_llama_python_stuff`

- `python3.8 -m venv ./venv_ml_llama`

    - Note that I'm using an older version of python, 3.8x, because that's the version of python for a server I regularly deploy to.

- `ln -s ./venv_ml_llama ./env`

- `mkdir ./ml_llama_python_code`

- `cd ./ml_llama_python_code`

- `source ../env/bin/activate`

- Re `requirements.in` -- For reproducibility, I put the main requirements into `requirements.in`, then `pip install pip-tools` into the venv, then `pip-compile ./requirements.in` (pip-compile is part of pip-tools) to produce the `requirements.txt`, then `pip-sync ./requirements.txt` (pip-sync is part of pip-tools).

- The url where Chris got his model says "obsolete", so I searched HuggingFace and found (as of 2023-Nov-21) [a different file named `ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin`](https://huggingface.co/Bleak/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1/tree/main)

- Getting an error just trying to load the model -- see video at 5:40:

    ```
    (venv_ml_llama) birkin@birkinbox-2021 ml_llama_python_code % 
    (venv_ml_llama) birkin@birkinbox-2021 ml_llama_python_code % python ./main.py
    [22/Nov/2023 12:10:14] DEBUG [main-<module>()::11] loading model
    gguf_init_from_file: invalid magic characters tjgg??k.
    error loading model: llama_model_loader: failed to load model from ../models/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin

    llama_load_model_from_file: failed to load model
    AVX = 0 | AVX2 = 0 | AVX512 = 0 | AVX512_VBMI = 0 | AVX512_VNNI = 0 | FMA = 0 | NEON = 1 | ARM_FMA = 1 | F16C = 0 | FP16_VA = 1 | WASM_SIMD = 0 | BLAS = 1 | SSE3 = 0 | SSSE3 = 0 | VSX = 0 | 
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "./main.py", line 12, in <module>
        llm = Llama( model_path='../models/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin' )
    ...etc...
    ```

    Some info on that `invalid magic characters tjgg`...
    <https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/issues/3708>

    Trying a suggestion from the youtube video...

    ```
    spheres5531
    5 months ago
    hey i found this and it worked for me: pip freeze | grep llama
    pip cache purge
    pip install llama-cpp-python==0.1.39
    ```

    Ok, that worked! Thanks `spheres5531`!

- TODO: the `llama.cpp/issues/3708` thread and other stuff indicates that modern versions of `llama-ccp-python`... maybe don't work on `.bin` files? But instead expect `.gguf` files? (New to all this.) So after I get this working, perhaps explore newer versions of `llama-ccp-python` (this is the nice benefit of being able to have multiple venvs and just point the `env` simlink to the active one) with newer models. For reference, [a gpt4 overview of the gguf format](https://chat.openai.com/share/6826ff67-432e-4e04-99b4-6e9be08242bd).

---


# Usage

`time python ./main01.py`
(or other `main__.py` file)


## main03.py output

```
[22/Nov/2023 14:14:50] DEBUG [main03-<module>()::46] output, ``{'choices': [{'finish_reason': 'length',
              'index': 0,
              'message': {'content': ' Ada Lovelace was a British '
                                     'mathematician and writer, born in 1815. '
                                     'She is best known for her work on '
                                     "Charles Babbage's early mechanical "
                                     'general-purpose computer, the Analytical '
                                     'Engine. Lovelace is credited with '
                                     'writing the first computer program, '
                                     'which was designed to calculate the '
                                     'Bernoulli numbers. She was also a '
                                     'prolific writer and published several '
                                     'books, including a translation of the '
                                     'Italian novel "The Betrothed"',
                          'role': 'assistant'}}],
 'created': 1700680479,
 'id': 'chatcmpl-389e00aa-52c0-4de0-8522-460f076dd81a',
 'model': '../models/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin',
 'object': 'chat.completion',
 'usage': {'completion_tokens': 100, 'prompt_tokens': 20, 'total_tokens': 120}}``
```


## main02.py output

```
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:48] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` Ada``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:48] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` Lov``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``el``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``ace``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` was``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` an``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` English``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` math``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``ematic``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, ``ian``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` and``
[22/Nov/2023 13:45:49] DEBUG [main02-<module>()::34] text, `` writer``
...etc...
```


## main01.py output

```
[22/Nov/2023 12:55:35] DEBUG [main-<module>()::28] output: {
  "id": "cmpl-03b92ca8-2d67-4acc-b6f4-2964398e2bd2",
  "object": "text_completion",
  "created": 1700675728,
  "model": "../models/ggml-vicuna-13b-4bit-rev1.bin",
  "choices": [
    {
      "text": "Question: Who is Ada Lovelace? Answer: Ada Lovelace was an English mathematician and writer, born in 1815. She is known for her work on Charles Babbage's early mechanical general-purpose computer, the Analytical Engine. She is considered to be the world's first computer programmer.",
      "index": 0,
      "logprobs": null,
      "finish_reason": "stop"
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 12,
    "completion_tokens": 62,
    "total_tokens": 74
  }
}
python ./main.py  33.89s user 0.72s system 486% cpu 7.117 total
```
